<script setup lang="ts">
import ElectricConnection from "../../../components/ElectricElement/ElectricConnection";
import ElectricConnectorType from "../../../components/ElectricElement/ElectricConnectorType";
import ElectricConnectorDirection from "../../../components/ElectricElement/ElectricConnectorDirection";
import ElectricConnectionDisplayMode from "../../../components/ElectricElement/ElectricConnectionDisplayMode";
import IOPort from "../../../components/ElectricElement/IOPort";
import ElectricElement from "../../../components/ElectricElement/ElectricElement.vue";

let connections = [
    new ElectricConnection(ElectricConnectorDirection.All, ElectricConnectorType.Input, ElectricConnectionDisplayMode.StartAndEnd, [
        new IOPort(1, 1, "Power", "If this is 0, the emulator will shut down, otherwise it will be turned on."),
        new IOPort(2, 2, "Reset", "When this is 1, the emulator will reset itself."),
        new IOPort(3, 4, "旋转", "For each 1 increase of this, the screen of the emulator will rotate 90 degree clockwise."),
        new IOPort(5, 8, "Empty", "No effect."),
        new IOPort(9, 16, "Controller 1", "From the lowest bit to the highest bit：`→`&#8203;`←`&#8203;`↓`&#8203;`↑`&#8203;`Start`&#8203;`Select`&#8203;`B`&#8203;`A`"),
        new IOPort(17, 24, "Controller 2", "No Effect，Because [XamariNES](https://github.com/enusbaum/XamariNES) does not support the second controller."),
        new IOPort(25, 31, "Scale", "If this is 0 or 1, the screen of the emulator will be 1 block size. Then each 1 increase of this, the screen size of the emulator will increase 1 block."),
        new IOPort(32, 32, "Empty", "No effect.")
    ])
];
</script>

# NES Emulator <Badge text="v1.0" type="info"/>

## Overview

Can emulate Nintendo Entertainment System games, using [XamariNES](https://github.com/enusbaum/XamariNES) library. The library runs on CPU only, does not output sound. The following ROM formats are supported:

* CNROM
* MMC1
* NROM
* UxROM

Probably these games can be played:

* [x] Super Mario
* [x] Contra
* [x] Double Dragon
* [ ] Castlevania
* [ ] Adventure Island
* [ ] Dragon Quest
* [ ] Metal Gear

Only one instance of NES emulator can be running, the screen contents of each emulator are the same. All controller signals will perform a bitwise OR operation, then transmitted to the instance.  
It will load the built-in [test ROM](https://github.com/enusbaum/XamariNES/blob/master/XamariNES.UI/XamariNES.UI.App/Resources/roms/nestest.nes) default when the emulator starts up. If you want to load another ROM, you can edit the block and enter the path of the ROM, or the ID of the memory bank that stores a ROM. If the path is`nestest`, the built-in test ROM will be loaded.

## Ports Definition

> The final input is generated by performing a bitwise OR operation between the inputs from all ports.

<ElectricElement imgAltPrefix="Nes Emulator" :connections="connections" imgSrc="/images/expand/leds/GVNesEmulatorBlock.webp"/>